Psalm 89 I will sing of the mercies of the Lord forever.
With my mouth will I make known thy faithfulness to all generations.
For I have said, Mercy shall be built up forever, thy faithfulness shalt thou establish in the very
heavens. I have made a covenant with my Chosen, I have sworn unto David my servant, thy seed will
I establish forever, and build up thy throne to all generations, Sila. And the heavens shall praise
thy wonders, O Lord, thy faithfulness also in the congregation of the saints. For who in the heaven
can be compared unto the Lord? Who among the sons of the mighty can be likened unto the Lord? God is
greatly to be feared in the assembly of the saints, and to be had in reverence of all them
that are about him. O Lord God of hosts, who is a strong Lord like unto thee, or to thy faithfulness
round about thee? Thou rulest the raging of the sea, when the waves thereof arise thou stillest
them. Thou hast broken Rahab in pieces, as one that is slain. Thou hast scattered thine enemies
with thy strong arm. The heavens are thine, the earth also is thine. As for the world and the
fullness thereof, thou hast founded them. The north and the south thou hast created them,
Tabor and Hermon shall rejoice in thy name. Thou hast a mighty arm, strong is thy hand,
and high is thy right hand. Justice and judgment are the habitation of thy throne,
mercy and truth shall go before thy face. Blessed is the people that know the joyful sound,
they shall walk, O Lord, in the light of thy countenance. In thy name shall they rejoice all
the day, and in thy righteousness shall they be exalted. For thou art the glory of their strength,
and in thy favor our horn shall be exalted. For the Lord is our defense, and the Holy One of
Israel is our King. Then thou spakest in vision to thy Holy One, and saidst, I have laid help upon
one that is mighty, I have exalted one chosen out of the people. I have found David my servant,
with my holy oil have I anointed him, with whom my hand shall be established, mine arm also shall
strengthen him. The enemy shall not exact upon him, nor the son of wickedness afflict him,
and I will beat down his foes before his face, and plague them that hate him. But my faithfulness
and my mercy shall be with him, and in my name shall his horn be exalted. I will set his hand
also in the sea, and his right hand in the rivers. He shall cry unto me, Thou art my Father, my God,
and the Rock of my salvation. Also I will make him my firstborn, higher than the kings of the
earth. My mercy will I keep for him for evermore, and my covenant shall stand fast with him. His
seed also will I make to endure for ever, and his throne as the days of heaven. If his children
forsake my law, and walk not in my judgments, if they break my statutes and keep not my commandments,
then will I visit their transgression with the rod, and their iniquity with stripes. Nevertheless,
my loving-kindness will I not utterly take from him, nor suffer my faithfulness to fail.
My covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that has gone out of my lips. Once have I sworn
by my holiness that I will not lie unto David. His seed shall endure for ever, and his throne
as the sun before me. It shall be established for ever as the moon, and as a faithful witness
in heaven, Sila. But thou hast cast off and abhorred, thou hast been wroth with thine anointed,
thou hast made void the covenant of thy servant, thou hast profaned his crown by casting it to the
ground, thou hast broken down all his hedges, thou hast brought his strongholds to ruin,
all that pass by the way spoil him, he is a reproach to his neighbors, thou hast set up the
right hand of his adversaries, thou hast made all his enemies to rejoice, thou hast also turned the
edge of his sword, and hast not made him to stand in the battle, thou hast made his glory to cease,
and cast his throne down to the ground, the days of his youth hast thou shortened,
thou hast covered him with shame, Sila. How long, Lord, wilt thou hide thyself for ever?
Shall thy wrath burn like fire? Remember how short my time is, wherefore hast thou made all men in
vain? What man is he that liveth, and shall not see death? Shall he deliver his soul from the hand
of the grave, Sila? Lord, where are thy former loving-kindnesses, which thou swearest unto David
in thy truth? Remember, Lord, the reproach of thy servants, how I do bear in my bosom the reproach
of all the mighty people, wherewith thine enemies have reproached, O Lord, wherewith they have
reproached the footsteps of thine anointed. Blessed be the Lord for evermore. Amen and Amen.
Psalm 90
Lord, thou hast been our dwelling-place in all generations, before the mountains were
brought forth, or ever thou hadst formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to
everlasting, thou art God. Thou turnest man to destruction, and sayest, Return ye children of
men. For a thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday, when it is past, and as a watch in the
night. Thou cariest them away as with a flood, they are as asleep, in the morning they are like
grass which groweth up. In the morning it flourisheth and groweth up, in the evening it is cut down and
withereth. For we are consumed by thine anger, and by thy wrath are we troubled. Thou hast set our
iniquities before thee, our secret sins, in the light of thy countenance. For all our days are
passed away in thy wrath, we spend our years as a tale that is told. The days of our years are three
score years and ten, and if by reason of strength they be four score years, yet is their strength
labor and sorrow, for it is soon cut off and we fly away. Who knoweth the power of thine anger?
Even according to thy fear so is thy wrath. So teach us to number our days, that we may apply
our hearts unto wisdom. Return, O Lord, how long, and let it repent thee concerning thy servants.
O satisfy us early with thy mercy, that we may rejoice and be glad all our days.
Make us glad according to the days wherein thou hast afflicted us, and the years wherein we have
seen evil. Let thy work appear unto thy servants, and thy glory unto their children. And let the
beauty of the Lord our God be upon us, and establish thou the work of our hands upon us,
yea, the work of our hands, establish thou it.
Psalm 91 He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of
the Almighty. I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress, my God, in Him will I
trust. Surely He shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler and from the noisome pestilence.
He shall cover thee with His feathers, and under His wings shalt thou trust. His truth
shall be thy shield and buckler. Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night,
nor for the arrow that flyeth by day, nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness,
nor for the destruction that wasteth at noonday. A thousand shall fall at thy side,
and ten thousand at thy right hand, but it shall not come nigh thee. Only with thine eyes
shalt thou behold and see the reward of the wicked. Because thou hast made the Lord,
which is thy refuge, even the Most High, thy habitation, there shall no evil befall thee,
neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling. For He shall give His angels charge over thee,
to keep thee in all thy ways. They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot
against a stone. Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder, the young lion and the dragon shalt
thou trample under feet. Because He hath set His love upon me, therefore will I deliver Him,
I will set Him on high, because He hath known my name. He shall call upon me, and I will answer
Him, I will be with Him in trouble, I will deliver Him and honor Him. With long life will
I satisfy Him and show Him my salvation. Psalm 92
It is a good thing to give thanks unto the Lord and to sing praises unto thy name, O Most High,
to show forth thy loving-kindness in the morning and thy faithfulness every night,
upon an instrument of ten strings and upon the psaltery, upon the harp with a solemn sound.
For thou, Lord, hast made me glad through thy work, I will triumph in the works of thy hands.
O Lord, how great are thy works, and thy thoughts are very deep. A brutish man knoweth not,
neither doth a fool understand this. When the wicked spring is the grass, and when all the
works are destroyed, for ever. But thou, Lord, art Most High for ever more. For lo thine enemies,
O Lord, for lo thine enemies shall perish, all the workers of iniquity shall be scattered.
But my horn shalt thou exalt like the horn of an unicorn, I shall be anointed with fresh oil.
Mine eye also shall see my desire on mine enemies, and mine ears shall hear my desire of the wicked
that rise up against me. The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree, he shall grow like
a cedar in Lebanon. Those that be planted in the house of the Lord shall flourish in the courts of
our God. They shall still bring forth fruit in old age, they shall be fat and flourishing.
To show that the Lord is upright, he is my rock and there is no unrighteousness in him.
Psalm 93
The Lord reigneth, he is clothed with majesty, the Lord is clothed with strength,
wherewith he hath girded himself. The world also is established, that it cannot be moved.
Thy throne is established of old, thou art from everlasting. The floods have lifted up, O Lord,
the floods have lifted up their voice, the floods lift up their waves. The Lord on high is mightier
than the noise of many waters, yea, than the mighty waves of the sea. Thy testimonies are
very sure, holiness becomeeth thine house, O Lord, for ever.
Psalm 94
O Lord God, to whom vengeance belongeth, O God, to whom vengeance belongeth, show thyself.
Lift up thyself, thou judge of the earth, render a reward to the proud.
Lord, how long shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked triumph,
how long shall they utter and speak hard things, and all the workers of iniquity boast themselves?
They break in pieces thy people, O Lord, and afflict thine heritage. They slay the
widow and the stranger, and murder the fatherless, yet they say,
The Lord shall not see, neither shall the God of Jacob regard it.
Understand ye, brutish among the people, and ye fools, when will ye be wise?
He that planted the ear, shall he not hear? He that formed the eye, shall he not see?
He that chastiseth the he, then, shall not he correct?
He that teacheth man knowledge, shall not he know?
The Lord knoweth the thoughts of man, that they are vanity.
Blessed is the man whom thou chastenest, O Lord, and teachest him out of thy law,
that thou mayest give him rest from the days of adversity, until the pit be digged for the wicked.
For the Lord will not cast off his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance.
But judgment shall return unto righteousness, and all the upright in heart shall follow it.
Who will rise up for me against the evildoers, or who will stand up for me against the workers
of iniquity? Unless the Lord had been my help, my soul had almost dwelt in silence.
When I said, My foot slippeth, thy mercy, O Lord, held me up. In the multitude of my
thoughts within me, thy comforts delight my soul. Shall the throne of iniquity have fellowship
with thee, which frameth mischief by a law? They gather themselves together against the soul of the
righteous, and condemn the innocent blood. But the Lord is my defense, and my God is the rock of my
refuge. And he shall bring upon them their own iniquity, and shall cut them off in their own
wickedness. Yea, the Lord our God shall cut them off. Psalm 95. O come, let us sing unto the Lord,
let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation. Let us come before his presence with
thanksgiving, and make a joyful noise unto him with psalms. For the Lord is a great God,
and a great King above all gods. In his hand are the deep places of the earth, the strength of the
hills is his also. The sea is his, and he made it, and his hands formed the dry land. O come,
let us worship and bow down, let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. For he is our God, and we are
people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand. Today, if ye will hear his voice, harden not your
heart, as in the provocation, and as in the day of temptation in the wilderness, when your fathers
tempted me, proved me, and saw my work. Forty years long was I grieved with this generation,
and said, It is a people that do err in their heart, and they have not known my ways,
unto whom I swear in my wrath that they should not enter into my rest.
Psalm 96 O sing unto the Lord a new song,
Sing unto the Lord all the earth, Sing unto the Lord bless his name,
Show forth his salvation from day to day. Declare his glory among the heathen,
His wonders among all people. For the Lord is great and greatly to be praised,
He is to be feared above all gods. For all the gods of the nations are idols,
But the Lord made the heavens. Honor and majesty are before him,
Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. Give unto the Lord, O ye kindreds of the people,
Give unto the Lord glory and strength. Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name,
Bring an offering and come into his courts. O worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness,
Fear before him all the earth. Say among the heathen that the Lord reigneth,
The world also shall be established that it shall not be moved,
He shall judge the people righteously. Let the heavens rejoice and let the earth be glad,
Let the sea roar in the fullness thereof, Let the field be joyful and all that is therein,
Then shall all the trees of the wood rejoice before the Lord,
For he cometh, for he cometh to judge the earth,
He shall judge the world with righteousness and the people with his truth.